---
title: 'Thesis and template'
date: 2023-07-07
permalink: /posts/2023/07/thesis/
gallery1:
  - url: cover.jpg
    image_path: cover.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: " "
tags:
  - soft skills
  - category1
  - category2
---

In this post, you can find my dissertation *Exploring ecological and social interactions through the lens of complex systems* and the LaTex files needed for generating the [pdf](https://ifisc.uib-csic.es/media/publications/publication/dfJWHsdBSGu9zp7MBz2WKQ.pdf){: .btn--research}.

{% include gallery id="gallery1" caption="The cover has been drawn using [Procreate](https://procreate.com/ipad). Pro tip: export your drawing to pdf and *then* add the text with a pdf editor to prevent blurred letters." %}

### Layout

The layout is based on the [Harvard-thesis template](https://github.com/suchow/Dissertate). You can also download my own version:

[https://github.com/violetavivi/Thesis/tree/main](https://github.com/violetavivi/Thesis/tree/main)

The file to be compiled for my dissertation is `thesis.tex`.

### Organization
A very important factor for successful thesis writing is the organization of the material. This template suggests a structure in folders as the following:
- `chapters/` is where all the *real* content goes in
    separate files such as `chp1.tex`.
- `frontmatter/` contains what surrounds the content, such as abstract, acknowledgments, dedication, etc. You also have a `endmatter/`.
- `figures/` is where you put all the graphics you use in the thesis. I have organized them into subfolders since I had a lot.
- `references.bib` is the BibTEX database to organize all your references. Overleaf can directly synchronize your Zotero library. https://www.overleaf.com/learn/how-to/How_to_link_your_Overleaf_account_to_Mendeley_and_Zotero
- `thesis.tex` is the main file.
- `Glossary.tex` is a list with all your acronyms. Uncomment line 109 `\printglossary[type=symbols,style=long,title={List of Symbols and Abreviations}]` on the main tex file to make it appear in the final pdf.
- `harvard-thesis.cls` is your $\LaTeX$ class file where you can define new commands to keep the main tex tidy. For example:
```latex
\newcommand{\abstractpage}{
	\newpage
	%\doublespace 
	\justifying
	\chapter*{Abstract}
	\input{frontmatter/abstract} 
    \chapter*{Resumen}
	\input{frontmatter/resumen}
}
```

### Customization

- Check the page size recommended by your University. I am using b5.
- In `harvard-thesis.cls` you can change, for example:
	- Set the colors of the hyperlinks (URLs, citations, etc) big number at the beginning of the chapters (@ line 29).
	- Define those colors with `\definecolor{myblue}{rgb}{0, 0.125, 0.38}`.
- I like the front page to have no numbering or roman numbering. You can change that in `thesis.tex` @ lines 110, 122-123 and 137 with commands like `\pagenumbering{roman}`.
  
